I don't see any technological contradictions in the Star Wars universe. I see no violations of plausible physics.
Sure, all the ships have 1g gravity. I assume that they achieve this by having a minimum acceleration of 1g when in space.  That easily gives an effective and comfortable gravity. I assume that became a standard in all spaceships, just as having a horn has become standard in all US automobiles.
There are lots of design issues.  Some people thought that circular steering wheels would not last in modern automobiles, but they have. Similar "anachronisms" are abundant in Star Wars. Completely automated star ships?  Completely automated weapons?  In my experience we typically like to have semi-automated operation, not fully automated systems.  Pilots like assisted flying, not fully automated. And when they want fully-automated, they can just put a droid in charge. Better to have a droid you trust than some system built-in by the original manufacturer.
Faster-than-light travel?  I assume that they discovered that ordinary space is bent, and you can take advantage of numerous small wormholes to jump across, whenever you want. The trick is to find the right ones, or you might run into a supernova or black hole. Of course they call this hyperdrive, and it gives the impression of faster-than-light travel. Han Solo says his ship made the Kessel Run in 12 parsecs. Presumably he is bragging how efficiently his ship found the right wormhole.  I suspect that by 12 parsecs he is referring to some characteristic of the wormhole, not the distance he actually travelled (which must have been much shorter).  
It is intriguing that many of their weapons shoot at relatively low speeds. Apparently they've discovered great advantages to that kind of design, although they don't state what they are.
In the 21st century, we have large glass windows. High quality glass windows were first developed in the late 1800s, when their novelty led to their use in some wonderful architecture, and some marvelous magic shows (with ghosts coming from reflections).  I assume that in the Star Wars world they have ways of laying down temporary windows (shields) that can hold air, at least locally, when they land on an asteroid.  Of course, to current Earth humans, such technology would look as magical and mysterious as the illusions performed by the 19th century magicians. 
Light sabers are clearly not beams of light (any more than light bulbs, in the 21st century, are spheres of light). They look like heavy ion beams to me, with a range of about a meter.
All the planets depicted have 1g gravity, but that is probably why those are the ones that they occupy.
I'm not saying that the plot makes sense. I just don't see any violations of plausible physics, or true technological/physics flaws.
I quickly go through logic like this whenever I watch science fiction.  I have to explain what I see to myself, so I can enjoy the story. I used to offer a service to my students: tell me about a science fiction movie, and I'll explain why it makes physics sense.
The only movie I utterly failed at was The Core. The physics violations happen so quickly, so rapidly one after the other, that I couldn't keep up.